*[原文地址](https://hbase.apache.org/book.html?spm=5176.2020520111.111.2.10d69161V7PZVb#hbase_metrics)*

> HBase emits metrics which adhere to the Hadoop metrics API. Starting with HBase 0.95[5], HBase is configured to emit a default set of metrics with a default sampling period of every 10 seconds. You can use HBase metrics in conjunction with Ganglia. You can also filter which metrics are emitted and extend the metrics framework to capture custom metrics appropriate for your environment.

> 133.1. Metric Setup

> For HBase 0.95 and newer, HBase ships with a default metrics configuration, or sink. This includes a wide variety of individual metrics, and emits them every 10 seconds by default. To configure metrics for a given region server, edit the conf/hadoop-metrics2-hbase.properties file. Restart the region server for the changes to take effect.

> To change the sampling rate for the default sink, edit the line beginning with *.period. To filter which metrics are emitted or to extend the metrics framework, see http://hadoop.apache.org/docs/current/api/org/apache/hadoop/metrics2/package-summary.html

> HBase Metrics and Ganglia
By default, HBase emits a large number of metrics per region server. Ganglia may have difficulty processing all these metrics. Consider increasing the capacity of the Ganglia server or reducing the number of metrics emitted by HBase. See Metrics Filtering.

*译：*

```
133.1. 指标项配置
HBase0.95以后包括0.95，提供了很多遵守Hadoop监控指标api。HBase配置了一系列的监控的指标并按照默认的10秒进行周期采样。
您可以使用HBase监控指标在Ganglia监控软件中，同时您也可以不使用这些提供的监控指标和可扩展的监控框架，定制适合您的HBase环境中使用的监控指标项。

在HBase0.95以后包括0.95, HBase自带了一个默认的监控配置或者接收器，它包含了各式各样的个性化监控配置项和每10秒更新。
例如给region server配置监控指标项，编辑conf/hadoop-metrics2-
hbase.properties文件，重启region server即可。

要改变默认接收器的采样频率，需要编辑以*.period开头的行。要过滤那些已经提供的监控指标项以及扩展的监控框架，
参考：http://hadoop.apache.org/docs/current/api/org/apache/hadoop/metrics2/package-summary.html

HBase Metrics and Ganglia
HBase为每一个region server提供了大量的监控指标项， Ganglia可能很难处理所有这些指标项，可以考虑增加Ganglia服务的资源或者减少HBase指标项，
参考：http://hadoop.apache.org/docs/current/api/org/apache/hadoop/metrics2/package-summary.html#filtering
```
</br>

> 133.2. Disabling Metrics
To disable metrics for a region server, edit the conf/hadoop-metrics2-hbase.properties file and comment out any uncommented lines. Restart the region server for the changes to take effect.

*译：*

```
133.2. 禁用监控指标项
为了某一个region server禁用指标项，只需要修改conf/hadoop-metrics2-hbase.properties文件和注释掉任何没有被注释的行，然后重启region server即可。
```
</br>

> 133.3. Discovering Available Metrics
Rather than listing each metric which HBase emits by default, you can browse through the available metrics, either as a JSON output or via JMX. Different metrics are exposed for the Master process and each region server process.

> Procedure: Access a JSON Output of Available Metrics
>
> 1、After starting HBase, access the region server’s web UI, at http://REGIONSERVER_HOSTNAME:60030 by default (or port 16030 in HBase 1.0+).

> 2、Click the Metrics Dump link near the top. The metrics for the region server are presented as a dump of the JMX bean in JSON format. This will dump out all metrics names and their values. To include metrics descriptions in the listing — this can be useful when you are exploring what is available — add a query string of ?description=true so your URL becomes http://REGIONSERVER_HOSTNAME:60030/jmx?description=true. Not all beans and attributes have descriptions.

> 3、To view metrics for the Master, connect to the Master’s web UI instead (defaults to http://localhost:60010 or port 16010 in HBase 1.0+) and click its Metrics Dump link. To include metrics descriptions in the listing — this can be useful when you are exploring what is available — add a query string of ?description=true so your URL becomes http://REGIONSERVER_HOSTNAME:60010/jmx?description=true. Not all beans and attributes have descriptions.

> You can use many different tools to view JMX content by browsing MBeans. This procedure uses jvisualvm, which is an application usually available in the JDK.

> Procedure: Browse the JMX Output of Available Metrics

> 1、Start HBase, if it is not already running.

> 2、Run the command jvisualvm command on a host with a GUI display. You can launch it from the command line or another method appropriate for your operating system.

> 3、Be sure the VisualVM-MBeans plugin is installed. Browse to Tools → Plugins. Click Installed and check whether the plugin is listed. If not, click Available Plugins, select it, and click Install. When finished, click Close.

> 4、To view details for a given HBase process, double-click the process in the Local sub-tree in the left-hand panel. A detailed view opens in the right-hand panel. Click the MBeans tab which appears as a tab in the top of the right-hand panel.

> 5、To access the HBase metrics, navigate to the appropriate sub-bean:

> 6、The name of each metric and its current value is displayed in the Attributes tab. For a view which includes more details, including the description of each attribute, click the Metadata tab.

*译：*

```
133.3. 探索可用的监控指标
默认情况下您不必列出所有提供的指标项，您可以通过json或者JMX的方式浏览可用的指标。为主进程或者每一个region server进程展示不同的指标项。

步骤：访问可用指标的json输出方式
1、在启动HBase之后，访问region server的web UI，默认地址如：http://REGIONSERVER_HOSTNAME:60030 (或者端口为16030在HBase 1.0+)
2、在界面的顶部附近，点击指标项Dump链接，region server的所有监控指标项以及它们对应的值将以已经格式化好的json数据的JMX方式展现，
  当你在学习那些是有用的指标，有一种方式是非常实用的，就是您可以在链接后加上?description=true(http://REGIONSERVER_HOSTNAME:60030/jmx?description=true)，
  返回结果中将包含每一个指标项的描述。但是并不是所有的指标属性都有描述。
3、想看Master的监控指标项，改为访问Master的web UI地址(默认链接http://localhost:60010或者端口为16010在HBase1.0以上)。
  并且点击Metrics Dump链接。当你在学习那些是有用的指标，有一种方式是非常实用的，就是您可以在链接后加上?description=true( http://REGIONSERVER_HOSTNAME:60010/jmx?description=true)，
  返回结果中将包含每一个指标项的描述。但是并不是所有的指标属性都有描述。

您可以使用许多不同的工具通过浏览MBeans来查看JMX内容，这里有一个在JDK经常使用的应用程序的工具jvisualvm使用步骤。

步骤：
1、如果HBase服务没有启动，就先启动HBase。
2、在具有GUI展示的主机上运行命令jvisualvm。您可以从命令行或者其他适合您操作系统的方式启动它。
3、确认VisualVM-MBeans插件已经安装。浏览并选择步骤：Tools → Plugins。点击已安装并检查插件是否已列出，
  如果没有，点击可用插件，选中它，并点击安装按钮。当安装完毕点击close按钮。
4、为了查看给定的HBase主进程详细信息，请双击左侧面板中的本地树中的进程，详细信息将在右侧面板中展示，点击右侧面板顶部显示为MBeans的选项卡。
5、要访问HBase指标，导航到相应的子bean。
6、这些指标项的名字和它们当前的值展示在属性选项卡中。对于包含更多详细信息，包括每个属性的说明，的视图，请单击Metadata选项卡
```
</br>

>133.4. Units of Measure for Metrics

>Different metrics are expressed in different units, as appropriate. Often, the unit of measure is in the name (as in the metric shippedKBs). Otherwise, use the following guidelines. When in doubt, you may need to examine the source for a given metric.

>* Metrics that refer to a point in time are usually expressed as a timestamp.
>* Metrics that refer to an age (such as ageOfLastShippedOp) are usually expressed in milliseconds.
>* Metrics that refer to memory sizes are in bytes.
>* Sizes of queues (such as sizeOfLogQueue) are expressed as the number of items in the queue. Determine the size by multiplying by the block size (default is 64 MB in HDFS).
>* Metrics that refer to things like the number of a given type of operations (such as logEditsRead) are expressed as an integer.

*译：*

```
133.4. 监控指标项的测量单位

不同的指标项使用不同的单位表示， 通常，指标项单位是名称（如指标项shippedKBs）。 否则，请使用以下准则。 如有疑问，您可能需要检查给定指标的来源。
1、指向某个时间点的指标通常单位以时间戳表示
2、表示运行时长的指标(如ageOfLastShippedOp)通常以毫秒表示
3、内存大小的指标以byte为单位表示
4、队列的大小(如sizeOfLogQueue)表示为队列中的项目数。通过乘以块的大小(默认是64MB在HDFS)决定这个大小
5、指向类型的操作的指标项(如logEditsRead)以integer表示
```
</br>

> 133.5. Most Important Master Metrics
Note: Counts are usually over the last metrics reporting interval.

>* hbase.master.numRegionServers
 Number of live regionservers

>* hbase.master.numDeadRegionServers
 Number of dead regionservers

>* hbase.master.ritCount
 The number of regions in transition

>* hbase.master.ritCountOverThreshold
 The number of regions that have been in transition longer than a threshold time (default: 60 seconds)

>* hbase.master.ritOldestAge
 The age of the longest region in transition, in milliseconds

*译：*

```
133.5. 重要的HBase Master的指标项
> hbase.master.numRegionServers
  监控的regionservers数量

> hbase.master.numDeadRegionServers
  挂掉的regionservers数量

> hbase.master.ritCount
  hbase的Region状态变迁数，hbase特定操作行为通常包括assign、unassign、split以及merge等，而很多其他操作都可以拆成unassign和assign，比如move操作实际上是先unassign再assign。会触发Region状态变迁的操作以及操作对应的Region状态。 参考：http://lib.csdn.net/article/hbase/67451?knId=1669

> hbase.master.ritCountOverThreshold
  Region状态变迁的超过一个阀值时间的数量(默认为60s)

> hbase.master.ritOldestAge
  Region状态变迁最长的时间，以毫秒表示
```
</br>

>133.6. Most Important RegionServer Metrics
Note: Counts are usually over the last metrics reporting interval.

>* hbase.regionserver.regionCount
The number of regions hosted by the regionserver

>* hbase.regionserver.storeFileCount
The number of store files on disk currently managed by the regionserver

>* hbase.regionserver.storeFileSize
Aggregate size of the store files on disk

>* hbase.regionserver.hlogFileCount
The number of write ahead logs not yet archived

>* hbase.regionserver.totalRequestCount
The total number of requests received

>* hbase.regionserver.readRequestCount
The number of read requests received

>* hbase.regionserver.writeRequestCount
The number of write requests received

>* hbase.regionserver.numOpenConnections
The number of open connections at the RPC layer

>* hbase.regionserver.numActiveHandler
The number of RPC handlers actively servicing requests

>* hbase.regionserver.numCallsInGeneralQueue
The number of currently enqueued user requests

>* hbase.regionserver.numCallsInReplicationQueue
The number of currently enqueued operations received from replication

>* hbase.regionserver.numCallsInPriorityQueue
The number of currently enqueued priority (internal housekeeping) requests

>* hbase.regionserver.flushQueueLength
Current depth of the memstore flush queue. If increasing, we are falling behind with clearing memstores out to HDFS.

>* hbase.regionserver.updatesBlockedTime
Number of milliseconds updates have been blocked so the memstore can be flushed

>* hbase.regionserver.compactionQueueLength
Current depth of the compaction request queue. If increasing, we are falling behind with storefile compaction.

>* hbase.regionserver.blockCacheHitCount
The number of block cache hits

>* hbase.regionserver.blockCacheMissCount
The number of block cache misses

>* hbase.regionserver.blockCacheExpressHitPercent
The percent of the time that requests with the cache turned on hit the cache

>* hbase.regionserver.percentFilesLocal
Percent of store file data that can be read from the local DataNode, 0-100

>* hbase.regionserver.<op>_<measure>
Operation latencies, where <op> is one of Append, Delete, Mutate, Get, Replay, Increment; and where <measure> is one of min, max, mean, median, 75th_percentile, 95th_percentile, 99th_percentile

>* hbase.regionserver.slow<op>Count
The number of operations we thought were slow, where <op> is one of the list above

>* hbase.regionserver.GcTimeMillis
Time spent in garbage collection, in milliseconds

>* hbase.regionserver.GcTimeMillisParNew
Time spent in garbage collection of the young generation, in milliseconds

>* hbase.regionserver.GcTimeMillisConcurrentMarkSweep
Time spent in garbage collection of the old generation, in milliseconds

>* hbase.regionserver.authenticationSuccesses
Number of client connections where authentication succeeded

>* hbase.regionserver.authenticationFailures
Number of client connection authentication failures

>* hbase.regionserver.mutationsWithoutWALCount
Count of writes submitted with a flag indicating they should bypass the write ahead log

*译：*

```
133.6. 重要的RegionServer监控指标项
> hbase.regionserver.regionCount
  region的数量

> hbase.regionserver.storeFileCount
  当前又regionserver管理的store files的数量

> hbase.regionserver.storeFileSize
  store files的总大小

> hbase.regionserver.hlogFileCount
  写入hlog并未归档的日志数

> hbase.regionserver.totalRequestCount
  regionserver 总的请求量

> hbase.regionserver.readRequestCount
  regionserver 总的读请求量

> hbase.regionserver.writeRequestCount
  regionserver 总的写请求量

> hbase.regionserver.numOpenConnections
  在RPC层打开的连接数

> hbase.regionserver.numActiveHandler
  活跃的处理请求的RPC应用程序数

> hbase.regionserver.numCallsInGeneralQueue
  当前入队用户请求数

> hbase.regionserver.numCallsInReplicationQueue
  当前入队并接受到响应操作的请求数

> hbase.regionserver.numCallsInPriorityQueue
  当前优先入队（内部管理）的请求数

> hbase.regionserver.flushQueueLength
  当前memstore刷新队列深度(长度)， 如果增加，我们将落后于将memstores flush到HDFS。

> hbase.regionserver.updatesBlockedTime
  更新被阻塞若干秒之后，memstore可以被flush

> hbase.regionserver.compactionQueueLength
  当前压缩请求的队列深度，如果增加，我们将落后于storefile的压缩

> hbase.regionserver.blockCacheHitCount
  block块缓存命中数

> hbase.regionserver.blockCacheMissCount
  block块缓存未命中数

> hbase.regionserver.blockCacheExpressHitPercent
  命中缓存比率

> hbase.regionserver.percentFilesLocal
  store file的数据可以从本地DataNode读取的比率，范围从0~100

> hbase.regionserver.<op>_<measure>
  操作延迟，<op>为追加、删除、改变、获取、回滚、增加之一，<measure>为最小、最大、平均、中间值、75%、95%、99%之一

> hbase.regionserver.slow<op>Count
  慢操作的数量，操作为上面配置中的<op>其中之一

> hbase.regionserver.GcTimeMillis
  垃圾回收花费时间，单位为毫秒

> hbase.regionserver.GcTimeMillisParNew
  年轻一代垃圾回收花费时间，单位为毫秒

> hbase.regionserver.GcTimeMillisConcurrentMarkSweep
  老年代垃圾回收花费时间，单位为毫秒

> hbase.regionserver.authenticationSuccesses
  认证成功的连接数

> hbase.regionserver.authenticationFailures
  认证失败的连接数

> hbase.regionserver.mutationsWithoutWALCount
  带有一个标记指示的写入并将绕过写入ahead log的写入次数。
```
